the race to free a child after Israeli
shelling in central Gaza The Rescuer
efforts were in vain the child another
casualty of the
conflict other gazin have heeded
warnings and fled South after Israel
issued an evacuation order for more than
1 million residents of Northern
Gaza families are taking shelter at
United Nations
schools many traumatized
from the
journey we are living under stress we
haven't seen anything like this before
it's huge a massive danger children as
you can see where should we take them
especially today when we fled our house
we saw burnt out cars along the way
thank God we're safe and that we've
reached the
South near gaza's border with Israel
Israeli forces are assembled for a
ground incursion Israel has vowed to
destroy the Palestinian Hamas militia
after its unprecedented Terror attacks
on Southern Israel but Hamas has taken
hostages into Gaza complicating Israel's
Invasion
plans on Saturday the Israeli Army said
it had recovered the bodies of hostages
killed just inside the Gaza Strip
perimeter
we need to be very delicate around this
issue we are concerned about the
hostages uh we are continually working
in order to identify and the process of
identifying bodies that have been
mutilated and burned is very tedious and
very timely I want to be respectful to
them yes of course we did say yesterday
that there were Israelis retrieved in
the in the ground
operations Israel has vowed to uphold
its Complete Siege of Gaza until all all
hostages are
freed Pope Francis has called for
humanitarian corridors to help those
under sieg in Gaza the Pope's appeal
comes as Israel readies its troops for a
ground assault and retaliation for
unprecedented attacks it suffered a week
ago as we have heard now Pope Francis
has also renewed his call for the
release of the hostages kidnapped by
Hamas
militants I am again appealing for the
release of the
hostages and I strongly urge that
children the sick the elderly women and
all civilians should not fall victim to
the
conflict humanitarian law must be
respected especially in Gaza where it is
urgent and necessary to guarantee
humanitarian corridors and help the
population Ahmed al- mandari is the
World Health organization's Regional
director for the Eastern Mediterranean
and I asked him how far it has been
possible in these days to evacuate
patient
answering your question I'd like just to
share with you numbers uh there are
around 22 hospitals in that area in
which Israel ask you know them to be
evacuated uh hosting around 2,000
patients many of them are on ventilators
um many of them are on regular uh 24
hours you know medications like cancer
therapy renal dialysis unfortunately
what you know this represents around 61%
of the bed capacities in the whole of
Gaza the other hospitals on the other
side you know in which they were pushed
to move are already full
99.9% full capacity there are no IU beds
there are no beds in the ordinary WS
operation theaters are fully working 24
hours with a severe shortage of supplies
uh there's shortage of water and
electricity in the coming few hours you
know if no solution is coming out in
addition to that clear you know I'd like
just to share that there are around
120,000 people in Gaza Strip you know
suffering from different types of
chronic illnesses like you know 52,000
of them 52,000 patients with diabetes
there are around 25 pregnant women uh in
which
180 deliveries a day so it means that we
are really putting death sentence to
those group of people who are in need of
that service in in every second of the
hour so it's not just in hospitals but
also health concerns for people across
the Gaza Strip I want to look at aid
from The Who yesterday your organization
has told us that it sent a plain load of
supplies that is now sitting in Egypt
waiting to get into Gaza do you think
that we are close to an agreement that
will allow those supplies to finally
cross into
Gaza this is what we are hoping you know
to to to get in the coming few hours
based on whatever negotiations our
director generalus is making and also my
counterpart Hans clogan from the
regional director you know of Europe in
addition to the other political leaders
around the globe asking the Israelis you
know to make sure that you know ra for
example border nearby Egypt is open our
supply is there in Alish airport which
is around 20 kilometer away from rafah
it is there available to be shipped to
Gaza our teams are also available in the
regional office here and headquarter uh
there are further supplies available in
our logistic Hub in Dubay uh we we manag
to re you know secure around 3 million
plus 1 million
US dollars to buy these supplies so we
are available in in each you know the
moment they tell us the you know RAF
Cross Point is open we are ready to go
inside and provide the support so your
team is ready to move in as soon as it
is allowed and possible can you tell us
a little bit more about exactly what is
in those supplies that will be sent to
Gaza to help people
there these supplies included in fact
you know trauma kits that can be used to
treat those injured people either on
streets
in the field or in hospitals uh there
are kids you know containing um surgical
kits to do operation inside the
hospitals there are medications for um
chronic illnesses like diabetes
hypertension uh there are kids also to
provide for around 300,000 people
including pregnant ladies to provide
them with the care they need inside
hospitals and also in the field well
thank you so much for taking the time to
speak with us on DW news we really
appreciate your time today that is W the
who's Ahmed Al and haret many
thanks